Assignment 01 - IMAD5112

This App was created to be an educational tool and a source of entertainment for students. The purpose is to make learning about famous figures from history to be engaging with the work, but still being fun and enjoyable at the same time. During the learning process one of the goals  is to also inspire young students to learn about historical figures and their impact to society during their time. it is also to use technology to help them engage more with the classes. 
The main purpose of the app is to make an interactive platform for students to learn about the historical figures around their ages in a fun and entertaining way that will capture the student’s attention and will not be boring. This is an opportunity to create a link between education and entertainment. Making the learning environment to be less tense, more enjoyable, helping the students learn better and during the learning process it is still memorable. 
What the app does it is, it will take the input of the students age or the age that the students put in and link it to a historical figure with the age that they had passed away, giving the name and age of the person. It is also easy and fun for students to use but also attracts the attention for the student which will then help with the interaction. By creating this app, it should make learning less boring and have the student’s attention, this well help boost their learn more and have better quality in their learning.
The logic of the app is age classification. There is a list of actors and actress with the age that they had died, examples Cameron Boyce 20 Disney Star, Princess Diana 36, Anton Yelchin 27, Brittany Murphy 32, Cheslie Kryst 30 (Louisa Ballhaus, 2023) . 
The students will type in an age and the code will help link and match the ages to famous figures like the ones listed above. In the app there is a Search and Clear Button which will help search for famous people and the clear button helps to clear the age that the student had entered previously which will reset it to the start. After they enter an age if there is a match there will be text that will appear  and says,  “You are … which is the same as …” If you enter an age with no match there will be a message that says, “There is no historical figure known to be around …years old”. The app will only allow whole numbers to be entered. There is also an age range from 20 years old to 100 years old.
During the process we used GitHub, it serves as a very important tool in the process of the development of the Historical Figures App. The utilization includes Version Control this helps enables the developer to manage and track the changes to the app's codebase which helps with the version control. Issue Tracking, this platform allows us to create but also track down issues such as bugs, issues with the code itself. Providing management for the project. GitHub also helps review codes and the workflows, letting developers to review and provide feedback on other people’s code that they have written which helps makes the code better and advances the code and help developers create better codes, it also helps you mange your files and codes better.
The way GitHub Works is, you create an account then you can push your work or code on to your account. Making it easier to access the code and review them. You can also then share the codes with people and that is what we have done.
We also ran a test to make sure that the app is functioning and that it is fun, enjoyable, and memorable but still educational for the students.
This App shows a better understanding of and approach about history and education. The technology gives the students a fun learning experience which will then help students be more engaged with the subject and the teacher, with them being able to explore and learn more about the famous historical figures. By using GitHub, it has helped develop and build the app more effectively and has helped with learning and understanding and codes. 

GitHub Link : https://github.com/St10455366/Assignment1
YouTube Link : https://youtu.be/kDrjs1b02oA 

Reference:
Module Manual Introduction to mobile application development IMAD5112/d/p/w 2024
Juviler, J 2024 What Is GitHub?(And What Is It Used For?). [website]. https://blog.hubspot.com/website/what-is-github-used-for [Accessed 3 April 2024]
Ballhaus, L 2023 50 Celebrities Who Died Tragically Young. [website]. https://www.sheknows.com/entertainment/slideshow/2498783/celebrities-who-died-young/ [Accessed 2 April 2024]

